[BY-LAW NUMBER 4: DRAFT RULES ON ENHANCEMENT RESERVE](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}
===================================================

Aegir Cooperative
{: #coop-name}

**[optional]**

### [Preamble](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

In accordance with Articles [149.1](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec149.1) and
[149.6](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec149.6) through
[185](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec185) of the Cooperatives Act (CQLR, c
C-67.2), the Cooperative establishes, by this by-law, an enhancement reserve,
as follows:

### [Article 1: Enhancement reserve](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

This reserve is intended to enhance the use of the services of the cooperative
by members.

### [Article 2: Use](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

Sums up the enhancement reserve may:

1. be used for the allocation of an additional rebate to people who cease to be
   members of the cooperative in the course of business;
2. be delivered to members and auxiliary members if the cooperative liquidation
   in the manner and under the conditions laid down in Article
   [185](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec185) of the Act.

### [Article 3: Allocation of surplus or surplus](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

When the general reserve of the cooperative is positive and that the
requirements of Article [146](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec146) of the Act have
been met, the Board may allocate to the enhancement reserve part of the surplus
or surplus earnings with non-members of the cooperative.

The maximum percentage of the operating surplus or surplus earnings with
non-members can be assigned to the enhancement reserve for a given financial
year is the same percentage as the percentage of transactions that the
cooperative has carried out with its members for that year.

### [Article 4: Assigning a discount to the outgoing members](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The allocation of an additional rebate to people who cease to be members of the
cooperative in the course of its business is subject:

1. the conditions of Article [38](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec38) of the Act,
   with the necessary modifications;
2. the allocation policy established by the Board of Directors, which aims to
   ensure the financial stability of the cooperative and intergenerational
   equity among members;

The rebate is granted in proportion to the operations carried out by these
persons with the cooperative during the **[number]** financial years preceding
the person or persons cease to be members of the cooperative.

### [Article 5: Sharing the enhancement reserve in case of liquidation](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

In the case of the liquidation of the cooperative, the balance of the
enhancement reserve as defined in section
[185](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec185) of the Act, is given to individuals who
were members or auxiliary members of the cooperative during the period
including five years financial preceding that during which the liquidation was
passed.

This collection takes place in proportion to the operations carried out by
these persons with the cooperative during the **[number (5 or greater)]**
financial years preceding the liquidation of the cooperative.

### [Article 6: Monitoring the enhancement reserve](#) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

Any deficit of the cooperative is deducted in priority the enhancement reserve.

The annual report of the cooperative contain a statement of the enhancement
reserve, including the total amount of the rebates allotted on this subject, if
any, for the financial year concerned.

The Board shall inform the members of the content of the allocation of
additional rebates policy to the outgoing members and any changes thereto.

### [Article 7: Coming into force](#article-7-coming-into-force) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

This regulation shall enter into force on **[date]**.




Date:

Secretary:

