BY-LAW NUMBER 3: RULES ON MEDIATION OF DISPUTES
===============================================

Aegir Cooperative
{: #coop-name}


**[optional]**

### [Preamble](#preamble) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

According to [Article 54.1 of the Cooperatives Act (CQLR c C-67.2,
s 54.1)](http://canlii.ca/t/52jp7#sec54.1), it is resolved to adopt this
Regulation dispute mediation to encourage the settlement of a dispute that may
occur between the cooperative and a member or auxiliary member (hereinafter
referred to as "the member") and determine the terms of mediation.

### [Article 1: Mediation](#article-1-mediation) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

Any dispute between the cooperative and a member may be subject to mediation,
at the request of the cooperative or the member.

### [Article 2: Written Request](#article-2-written-request) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The mediation request is initiated when a party sends a written request to that
effect to the other party. The written request contains a brief summary of the
basis for the request.

Once introduced the request for mediation, the parties are required to
participate in good faith.

### [Article 3: Representation](#article-3-representation) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The cooperative must be represented by a person authorized to act for that
purpose. It is the same for the member, if it is a company or a corporation.

### [Article 4: Mediator](#article-4-mediator) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The mediator is chosen jointly by the cooperative and the member.

If after **[number]** days of the date of the written request for mediation,
the parties could not agree on the person to fill the role of mediator,
**[person or designated agency]** shall, upon written request of a party, the
appointment of the mediator, in **[number]** days time of this application.

### [Article 5: Qualities of the Mediator](#article-5-qualities-of-the-mediator) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The chosen mediator must be independent and impartial, especially in that it
does not represent any of the parties.

The mediator must also have the knowledge necessary to carry out its mandate.

### [Article 6: Role of the Mediator and Mediation](#article-6-role-of-the-mediator-and-mediation) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The mediator helps the parties to seek a negotiated solution to their dispute.
To this end, in particular, it helps the cooperative and the member to
communicate, negotiate, assess their positions and explore mutually
satisfactory solutions.

Mediation is not used to determine which party is right but is intended to find
a satisfactory solution for both parties in compliance with the laws and
regulations of the cooperative.

The cooperative and the member must contribute to a climate of respectful and
fruitful exchanges to promote the settlement of the dispute.

### [Article 7: Conduct of the Mediation](#article-7-conduct-of-the-mediation) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The mediator fixes the measures to facilitate the conduct of mediation.

The ombudsman receives, upon appointment, the parties instead it determines. It
hears, if necessary, separately or together.

He requested all relevant information, including documents required for
consideration of the dispute.

The duration of the mediation shall not exceed **[number]** days from the date of
appointment of the mediator. This period may be extended once, by agreement of
all parties, lasting not more than the period mentioned above.

### [Article 8: Confidentiality](#article-8-confidentiality) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

The mediator and the parties are bound by strict confidentiality for all
matters concerning mediation. In particular, any finding, statement or
proposition made before the mediator or it can be used later in the judicial or
other proceedings. The mediator may not be called to testify in judicial or
other proceedings.

Upon the appointment of the mediator, it and each of the parties agree in
writing to respect the confidentiality obligations.

### [Article 9: Expenses](#article-9-expenses) [](#){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

Mediation costs, if any, are borne equally between the cooperative and the
member, unless the parties agree otherwise.

### [Article 10: Termination of the Mediation](#article-10-termination-of-the-mediation) [](../#){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

At the latest, within the period provided for in [Article 7 of this
By-law](#article-7-conduct-of-the-mediation), the mediation ends:

1. decision of the mediator if it considers that the mediation process does not
   result in an agreement. The Ombudsman sent the parties a written notice of
   its decision;

2. If the parties jointly agree in writing to terminate the mediation process;

3. by an agreement between the cooperative and the member. The agreement is
   subject to a writing signed by the parties.

### [Article 11: Coming into force](#article-11-coming-into-force) [](){: .fa .fa-question-circle}

This regulation shall enter into force on **[date]**.




Date: **[date]**
Secretary: **[secretary's name]**

