GOVERNANCE
==========

**[name of the cooperative]**

BY-LAW NUMBER 1
---------------

Chapter I:  Definitions [](../by-law1.md#chapter-i-definitions){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
-----------------------

### Article 1: Definitions [](../by-law1.md#article-1-definitions){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Basic definitions help avoid confusion in the interpretation of articles of the
by-laws. We recommend clearly defining the most frequently used terms and all
terms in the by-laws whose meaning may vary from one context or person to
another.

Chapter II: Constitution [](../by-law1.md#chapter-ii-constitution){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
------------------------

(ref. Articles 7-20, 33-36, 222 and 223.1)

Articles of Chapter II serve to inform. They are, however, included in the
articles of incorporation of the cooperative.

### Article 1: Incorporation of the cooperative [](../by-law1.md#article-1-incorporation-of-the-cooperative){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Date and name of the cooperative and the law that governed its incorporation.

### Article 2: Head office [](../by-law1.md#article-2-head-office){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The cooperative's head office address.

### Article 3: Goals [](../by-law1.md#article-3-goals){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

A producer cooperative must have an objective in its statutes to provide
professional utility services to its members. Some cooperatives add other goals
(for example, a community mission). They may also only register these
additional objectives in their by-laws. In fact, adding goals other than to
provide services in an application for cooperative status could complicate the
analysis and delay the acceptance.


Chapter III:  Social Capital [](../by-law1.md#chapter-iii-social-capital){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
----------------------------

(ref. Articles 37-49 of the Law)

### Article 1: Qualifying shares [](../by-law1.md#article-1-qualifying-shares){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Note: The number of qualifying shares may vary according to the nature of
operations in which the member participates and by service volume that the
cooperative is able to offer the member.

This is to determine the minimum level of financial commitment required to
obtain membership status; that is to say the minimum amount to invest to become
a member. This financial involvement has two functions: to consolidate the
membership of the member in the cooperative ("I've invested, I want it to
work") and increase the company's capitalization and, in doing so, the
available liquidity the cooperative.

Qualifying shares may be of two types: only common shares or common shares and
preferred shares. It is recommended that the minimum common shares ($10.00) and
the rest in preferred shares since the latter are eligible for significant tax
advantages and may bear interest (this interest should be limited), which is
not the case for the common shares.

### Article 2: Payment terms [](../by-law1.md#article-2-payment-terms){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Qualifying shares may be paid in several ways: in full upon admission to
membership or fixed payments. Although full payment upon admission proves a
real commitment to the cooperative, requiring it could limit the admission of
interesting candidates who do not have the necessary funds.

### Article 3: Reimbursement of shares [](../by-law1.md#article-3-reimbursement-of-shares){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Reimbursement of shares is done upon departure of a member, but the board may
determine priorities among the items listed in the law.

### Article 4: Transfer of shares [](../by-law1.md#article-4-transfer-of-shares){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Preferred shares are transferable under the conditions set by the Board in
accordance with Article 46 of the Law.

### Article 5: Preferred shares\* [](../by-law1.md#article-5-preferred-shares){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The Board sets all rules on the issuance of preferred shares: interest rates,
redemption terms, etc. The Cooperative Department provides a template for Board
resolutions. This template is made based on the eligibility of preferred shares
to the Cooperative Investment Plan (CIP), which provides a tax deduction of up
to 125% to the cooperative members or workers who invest in preferred shares.

### Article 6: Redemption, repayment or transfer of preferred shares [](../by-law1.md#article-6-redemption-repayment-or-transfer-of-preferred-shares){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Subject to the restrictions provided for in Article 38 of the law, the
preferred shares are redeemable or redeemable under the conditions set by the
Board in accordance with Article 46 of the Law.

The Board may establish rules in this area. However, if members wish to use
CIP, the board has to stick to the framework provided by the Cooperative
Department, which sets the rules of redemption and repayment.

The date of 14 February 1997, cited in the law, refers to the old law which
required that these rules are subject to a regulation adopted in General
Assembly.

The Board may provide conditions of refund based on priority classes. It is
thus necessary to distinguish the origin of the shares. Those from staff member
investments could be repaid in priority, those from the payment of a dividend
could be reimbursed next.


Chapter IV: Members [](../by-law1.md#chapter-iv-members){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
-------------------

(ref. 51 Articles 60.2, 224.1 and 224.2 of the Act)

### Article 1: Admission requirements [](../by-law1.md#article-1-admission-requirements){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The law does not require the cooperative to implement a process of integration
of members through the auxiliary member status. If the cooperative does not
determine such a process, the producer is a full member as of the first day for
which he fulfills a mandate for the cooperative (unless otherwise specified by
the producer).

However, we strongly suggest setting up good integration processes, to ensure,
on the one hand, that new partners share the values and vision of the
organization and on the other, that the person or entity understands the duties
and responsibilities which become incumbent upon it as a member.

To formalize this new relationship between the producer and the cooperative, it
is advisable to sign an application for admission as an auxiliary member -
APPENDIX 1.

This is to determine the time after which the board has enough information to
properly assess the admission of an auxiliary member as a permanent member. If
you want to keep a quality team, the selection of members should not be done
lightly. However, excessively strict criteria involving a long and arduous
selection process may result in alienating the person wishing to become a
member.

We must not forget that membership is an important factor of motivation. This
motivation is manifested in particular by an increased level of involvement in
the cooperative. So be careful not to unduly extend the evaluation period. This
could create an alienating effect in auxiliary members and a stagnant or even
decreasing involvement of these.

However, if one is looking for a very specific profile (high specialization,
specific values, etc.), it may be appropriate to set a longer probationary
period and stricter criteria to ensure the highest quality member possible. The
maximum period permitted by law is 12 months (art 193.4).

If a minimum test period is planned, this may allow in some cases to speed up
the admissions process as a member, especially if the person is already well
known to the team.

In any case, a first associative evaluation could be systemized after the
minimum period. If the auxiliary member meets the criteria of the coop,
administrators could accept immediately. Otherwise, the auxiliary member is
invited to continue the probationary period to its maximum term.

Other admission requirements may also be added: positive assessment of
professional competence, level of voluntary involvement, etc. (Cooperatives
Act, RSC., C. C-67.2., Article 3.1. C)

The cooperative may establish additional conditions for admission.

### Article 2: Rights of auxiliary members [](../by-law1.md#article-2-rights-of-auxiliary-members){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional.)

There is no requirement for a cooperative to convoke auxiliary members.
However, their presence at meetings can promote integration and training.

### Article 3: Territory or recruitment group [](../by-law1.md#article-3-territory-or-recruitment-group){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional.)

According to the objectives of the cooperative, the recruitment may be limited.
For example, a cooperative that promotes local development will limit its
membership to its region or city. A cooperative may also be limited to members
of a cultural community or women only.

It should however be careful that these criteria are not considered
discriminatory (see Human Rights).

### Article 4: Suspension or exclusion\*\* [](../by-law1.md#article-4-suspension-or-exclusion){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional.)

This article is excerpted from the law. By suspending or excluding members who,
for various reasons, have stopped working with the cooperative, it prevents
people who no longer participate in the life of the cooperative from unfairly
influencing decisions or otherwise enjoying the benefits of membership. This
article must therefore be applied discriminately.

The law also provides a number of procedures for the suspension or expulsion of
a member.

### Article 5: Suspension of voting rights [](../by-law1.md#article-5-suspension-of-voting-rights){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional.)

A member who has little or done business with the cooperative may not be aware
of the various problems being experienced by the cooperative. Thus, some
cooperatives to ensure a maximum of expertise and relevance when taking votes,
may apply this provision of the law.

The membership contract should determine the cooperative's obligations to offer
services to its members.

### Article 6: Sharing contracts [](../by-law1.md#article-6-sharing-contracts){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The regulation should minimally specify the grounds for the allocation of
contracts.

Other relevant rules may be delegated to the board that will set a contract
management policy.

By law, a union must do business for over 50% of its service revenues with
members. This article reinforces this obligation by prioritizing members versus
non-members.

This article limits the priority of the member if he does not respond in time
to a call. It thus enables the cooperative to be more efficient in the
allocation of contracts.

### Article 7: Member Agreement [](../by-law1.md#article-7-member-agreement){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional.)

The member of contract is an agreement between the member and the cooperative
for a fixed or indefinite period, which recognizes the admission of the member
in the cooperative.

The contract determines the nature of the relationship between the cooperative
and the member.

Various elements can navigate: remuneration, contract distribution modalities,
terms of payment of shares, etc.

The membership contract could also understand the expectations and demands on
the member: level of involvement, responsibilities, etc.

It is recommended to start with a relatively light contract that will evolve
over time. (Annex III: Member Agreement)


Chapter V: Members Assembly [](../by-law1.md#chapter-v-members-assembly){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
---------------------------

(ref. Articles 63-79 of the Law)

The General Assembly of members is the highest decision making body of the
cooperative. It elects the Board of Directors, adopts the regulations, rules on
the allocation of surplus and appoints the auditor. It has critical political
and legal functions. It is particularly important that the convocation and
holding follow specific procedures to avoid any confusion or misunderstanding.
Some cooperatives (particularly those with significant membership) adopt a code
of procedure known as the Morin code or the CSN code to hold their assemblies.

### Article 1: General Assembly [](../by-law1.md#article-1-general-assembly){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

This article confirms the Board of Directors' power to convene the General
Assembly. However, the law allows members of the cooperative to convene an
Extraordinary General Assembly.

### Article 2: Remote participation [](../by-law1.md#article-2-remote-participation){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

### Article 3: Notice of Meeting [](../by-law1.md#article-3-notice-of-meeting){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

In determining the rules of convocation, we make sure to avoid disputes and
thus ensure the official nature of the decisions taken.

### Article 4: Annual General Assembly\*\* [](../by-law1.md#article-4-annual-general-assembly){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Recall the rule prescribed by law (Article 76). The presence of this article in
the law may allow members to advise the Board if the meeting is not held in
time.

### Article 5: Transmission of the Annual Report [](../by-law1.md#article-5-transmission-of-the-annual-report){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

### Article 6: Extraordinary General Assembly\*\* [](../by-law1.md#article-6-extraordinary-general-assembly){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

As Article 2 of this chapter, this article is a reminder of the rights of
members. The extraordinary General Assembly (special general meeting) can be
called by the board but it is important for members to know that they also have
that power.

### Article 7: Quorum\* [](../by-law1.md#article-7-quorum){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

A quorum is the minimum of members present to ensure that decisions taken at a
meeting to be valid. The law limits the quorum for a meeting with the members
present. However, it allows the settlement to include a stricter quorum.

One can, for example, putting a quorum by a majority of members of the
cooperative or even two-thirds. The decision will depend on the number of
members, political issues of the cooperative members and involvement of will.
However, we must be careful not to make it ineffective governance structure of
the cooperative by imposing too high a quorum as this will prevent it from
making valid decisions.

It should be noted that according to the law (Article 64), the quorum ceases to
apply after convening two successive meetings where there was no quorum. The
second meeting may be held even if the quorum is not reached.

### Article 8: Vote [](../by-law1.md#article-8-vote){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

For some delicate decisions, the members desire not to express their views
publicly. For example, a person to vote against the interests of its work or
coordinating its partners could, if the vote is by show of hands, suffer the
blow-cons in his working relationships. It is important to respect that right.

### Article 9: Representation [](../by-law1.md#article-9-representation){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

An individual member can not physically be represented.


Chapter VI:  Board of Directors [](../by-law1.md#chapter-vi-board-of-directors){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
-------------------------------

(ref. 80 Articles 106.1 and 223.2 of the Act)

### Article 1: Eligibility of members\* [](../by-law1.md#article-1-eligibility-of-members){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

By law, the mere fact of being a member of the cooperative allows one to be
eligible for a position on the board. Since the members of the Board are
accountable to the assembly and the law for the proper administration of the
cooperative, their selection must be made, however rigorously. Other
eligibility criteria (allowed by law) may therefore be registered in the
bylaws.

1. By setting a minimum transaction with the cooperative, ensures that the
   candidate has sufficient experience in the cooperative to participate in its
   administration.
2. Payment in due form of qualifying shares demonstrates compliance with the
   administrative procedure which is essential to a good administrator.
   Maturities on qualifying shares are those who are late according to the
   regulation.

### Article 2: Eligibility of non-members\* [](../by-law1.md#article-2-eligibility-of-non-members){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

Since 1997, members may elect persons who are not members of the cooperative to
positions of directors. These positions, however, are limited to one third of
the total number of directorships. These candidates are usually resource
persons or external investors. The law gives the council the power to recommend
the candidate to the Assembly.

### Article 3: Observer membership\* [](../by-law1.md#article-3-observer-membership){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

It is preferable that the cooperative provide in its regulations for the
application process to sit as observer. The request may be made orally or in
writing to the Board. It can also be decreed that such a request must be made
at a special General Assembly.

It is good to also include the reasons for the request as an observer. A member
may be authorized to apply to sit as observer in case of doubt and suspicion of
irregularities on the Board or simply for the purpose aiding the operation of
the Board in the context of possibly filling a director position.

It should also provide the conditions by which refusal is acceptable, for
example because of the confidential nature of the decisions required.

### Article 4: Composition [](../by-law1.md#article-4-composition){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The number of directors, including non-members, is a minimum of three and a
maximum of fifteen. An odd number is recommended to avoid ties in voting.
However, in case of equality (if a member fails, for example) the chairman has
a casting vote 1. The board size is usually determined by the number of members
of the cooperative. Other considerations such as the effectiveness of the board
or the centralization of power (or de-centralization) are often among the items
discussed.

### Article 5: Powers of the Board [](../by-law1.md#article-5-powers-of-the-board){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

While these powers are defined by law, it is pertinent to inform the members of
the powers of their boards.

The General Assembly may, by adopting a regulation to that effect, limit the
authority of the board. It is suggested not to abuse this power but only to
ensure that respect all members not be treated lightly by the board. The choice
of such restrictions of Board power must take into account the efficiency of
operations and the general will of the members.

### Article 6: Duties of the Board\*\* [](../by-law1.md#article-6-duties-of-the-board){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The board's duties are drawn from the law. Their mention the internal bylaws
aims to inform members. Other duties may be given by the General Assembly.

### Article 7: Director Tenure [](../by-law1.md#article-7-director-tenure){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

This is the period for which the director is elected. The maximum duration is
three years. Directors whose term expires shall remain in office until they are
replaced or re-elected.

If no duration is indicated herein, the term is one year.

#### Article 7.1: Director Rotation [](../by-law1.md#article-71-director-rotation){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

This is an operation through which, each year, some of the positions on the
Board are re-elected. For two-year terms, all posts have been put in election
after two years. For terms of three years, the rotation will be done over three
years. The first posts to be re-election are drawn. By this rotation mode, it
allows the assembly to elect new directors every year and at the same time,
ensure better monitoring of records keeping a certain permanence to the Board.
The directors whose term expires may of course be re-elected. The Council will
then retain the same structure for the coming year.

For terms of one year, no rotation will be needed for all positions will be
elected each year. The annual mandates allow the Assembly to renew the board
more regularly but this can create some instability if a large part or all of
the board is replaced.

### Article 8: Nomination of non-member trustees [](../by-law1.md#article-8-nomination-of-non-member-trustees){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

If the General Assembly of the cooperative registered in the Regulations, or a
non-member directors can be elected.

Sections (1) and (3) are derived from the law while articles (2), (4) and (5)
offer procedures.

### Article 9: Nomination procedure and election of directors [](../by-law1.md#article-9-nomination-procedure-and-election-of-directors){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

For small cooperatives, it may not be possible to appoint a returning officer,
an election clerk and two scrutineers, making it impossible to apply the usual
election procedure. Giving the option to choose a procedure avoids the problem.
One can, for example, appoint a secretary and a deputy Chairman, can nominate a
block team simple proposition, etc. It is suggested to prepare this alternative
procedure to save time meeting.

#### Article 9.1: Procedure [](../by-law1.md#article-91-procedure){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The presented procedure allows, if the number of members is sufficient, to
ensure the conduct of a transparent and democratic election.

### Article 10: Board meetings [](../by-law1.md#article-10-board-meetings){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

\*\* Written resolutions, signed by all directors have the same value in terms
of the law as if they had been adopted during a meeting of the Board.

This article helps to avoid confusion and ensure the legal validity of
decisions taken in council meeting.

We suggest to hold meetings at a regular interval to ensure constant monitoring
of the Board on the conduct of affairs of the cooperative.

The mode of meeting must be clear and effective. A reduced time for emergency
meetings allows greater speed of reaction. The law sets deadlines are five (5)
days. The members, however, may decide otherwise in the regulations.

Written resolutions, signed by all directors can be used for isolated and
relatively urgent issues that require debate.

### Article 11: Revocation [](../by-law1.md#article-11-revocation){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

It is important that members are aware of their right to dispose of directors.
It goes without saying that the use of the procedure under the law must be used
in extreme cases.

### Article 12: Holiday\* [](../by-law1.md#article-12-holiday){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

To ensure maximum expertise on the board, it is important not to leave seats
vacant (due to resignation, dismissal or other). The board can therefore fill
the seat temporarily.

Chapter VII:  Executive Committee [](../by-law1.md#chapter-vii-executive-committee){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
---------------------------------

(ref. Articles 107-110 of the Act)

### Article 1: Executive committee [](../by-law1.md#article-1-executive-committee){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

Note: The constitution of such a committee is permitted only if the board
consists of at least 6 members.


Chapter VIII:  Leaders of the Cooperative [](../by-law1.md#chapter-viii-leaders-of-the-cooperative){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
-----------------------------------------

(ref. Articles 112.1 and 117 of the Act)

Only the positions of President, Vice President and Secretary are prescribed by
law. Others are created by regulation. These other items may be necessary
depending on the size of the cooperative or by the type of democracy desired by
members.

The officers (president, vice-president, secretary, etc.) are appointed from
among the directors (members of the board) who are elected in General Assembly.

In a small cooperative where decisions can be made quickly in the collective,
it is less useful to centralize powers. Leaders may benefit from limited power
efficiency without being affected.

In a larger cooperative, it is useful, sometimes even necessary, to better
define the powers necessary to centralize and create more leadership positions.
However, it is important that the distribution of powers is done according to a
balance of two elements: democracy and economic efficiency.

Committees may also be created by the Board of Directors to support specific
aspects of the cooperative financing, training, promotion, etc. Some standing
committees can also be integrated in Regulation (executive committee, for
example).

### Article 1: President [](../by-law1.md#article-1-president){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The president, in addition to her statutory role, usually has a leading
function at associations. This is the person who should look after the
interests of members and that members could refer.

### Article 2: Vice-president [](../by-law1.md#article-2-vice-president){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The Vice President often has personal characteristics approximating those of
the president. He is also her right arm.

### Article 3: Secretary-treasurer [](../by-law1.md#article-3-secretary-treasurer){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(this item may be split according to the number of directors to the board)

This position can also be split into two distinct positions. The size of the
cooperative often influences the choice.

The secretary and treasurer are the only positions on the Board that may be
paid for work related to the board since they are the only ones to produce work
such as minutes or summaries of financial statements. They are, however, not
paid for meetings. It should be noted that the secretary and the treasurer,
because of the large amount of information processed, also involves a lot of
power. It is therefore important to choose the right holders.

### Article 4: CEO or manager or coordinator [](../by-law1.md#article-4-ceo-or-manager-or-coordinator){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

Often the choice of the term reflects the ideology behind the post. Thus, a
manager or a general manager will often have a decision-making approach a
coordinator who will try to seek consensus and applies the collective
decisions. In all cases, it is responsible for the management of business
operations. It is somehow complement or weight against the president.

### Article 5: Development Advisor members [](../by-law1.md#article-5-development-advisor-members){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(This section is optional)

It is interesting to include in the structure of the cooperative proceeding or
related central role in community life and conflict regulations. This authority
or person may be given a mediation role. Take care to appoint a person to that
position at the "integrator" profile with strong interpersonal skills.


Chapter IX:  Activities of the cooperative [](../by-law1.md#chapter-ix-activities-of-the-cooperative){: .fa .fa-bookmark}
------------------------------------------

(ref. Articles 90, 226 and 128-134 of the Act)

### Article 1: Workers compensation [](../by-law1.md#article-1-workers-compensation){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

### Article 2: Continuing education [](../by-law1.md#article-2-continuing-education){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

### Article 3: Rebates, measuring the volume of work [](../by-law1.md#article-3-rebates-measuring-the-volume-of-work){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The rate of rebates may vary depending on the nature or quality of products or
services which were the subject of operations. (Article 151)

In a cooperative, it is possible that members are awarded a portion of the
surplus (profits) of the company; they are called rebates. Unlike private
companies, the amount of these rebates is not calculated according to the
amount invested but by the volume of operations carried out for the
cooperative.

The working volume can be calculated from wages, hours worked or other method
of calculation determined by regulation. It can also include volunteer hours to
promote involvement.

The regulation may also determine that rebates are calculated to four years.
This measure enables members who have worked for the cooperative before it
declares surplus to benefit more equitably sharing the surplus. These members
are often the founders who have worked hard for the cooperative reaches
profitability. One can thus create a balance between the different generations
of members: those who arrived after the stabilized and became profitable
cooperative, and those who experienced the often very difficult start-up
period. However, we must be concerned with the proportion that goes to old and
new. Be careful, for example, that the former does not monopolize almost all
discounts in order not to discourage new.

A cooperative may also prohibit the patronage allocation (it states in its
articles of incorporation, box 5). In this case (if, in addition, it does not
pay interest on its share), it will be considered vis-à-vis the tax, as a
non-profit organization and will not have to pay for taxes on its surplus.

### Article 4: Valuation Reserve [](../by-law1.md#article-4-valuation-reserve){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

(149.1 to 149.6 VIEW OF THE ACT)

#### Article 4.1: Constitution [](../by-law1.md#article-41-constitution){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

#### Article 4.2: Overpayments and surplus [](../by-law1.md#article-42-overpayments-and-surplus){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

#### Article 4.3: Rebates [](../by-law1.md#article-43-rebates){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

#### Article 4.4: Deficit [](../by-law1.md#article-44-deficit){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

#### Article 4.5: Liquidation [](../by-law1.md#article-45-liquidation){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

### Article 5: Suggestion and complaint [](../by-law1.md#article-5-suggestion-and-complaint){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

While some cooperatives will leave to management the task of managing the
complaints, others will form committees or adopt more detailed regulations.
This often depends on the size of the cooperative. However, it is important to
have a procedure to avoid arbitrariness.

### Article 6: Insurance [](../by-law1.md#article-6-insurance){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The law and the most cooperative partners (financial institutions, landlords,
etc.) require the cooperative is ensured.

### Article 7: Financial exercise [](../by-law1.md#article-7-financial-exercise){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The financial year is often different from the calendar year (calendar). It
depends on the date of commencement of operations, the seasonal cycle (you may
want to close the year in a period less busy) or simultaneously with the fiscal
year (March 31).

### Article 8: Signature [](../by-law1.md#article-8-signature){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

For added security, the law requires that more than one person signs the
checks. By having more signatories than the required number, you can get more
flexibility (availability of signatory). Usually the director will signatory,
as well as leaders on the board.

### Article 9: Annual Report [](../by-law1.md#article-9-annual-report){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

The annual report is, above all, produced to give members information on the
cooperative's operations during the year.

### Article 10: Coming Into Force [](../by-law1.md#article-10-coming-into-force){: .fa .fa-bookmark}

Date of adoption of the Regulation. You can also register each modification dates.

